# Object Literals
## WHAT IS AN OBJECT?
Objects group together a set of variables and functions to create a model 
of a something you would recognize from the real world. In an object, 
variables and functions take on new names. 

This object represents a hotel. It has five properties and one method. 
The object is in curly braces. It is stored in a variable called hotel . 
Like variables and named functions, properties and methods have a 
name and a value. In an object, that name is called a key. 

An object cannot have two keys with the same name. This is 
because keys are used to access their corresponding values. 

The value of a property can be a string, number, Boolean, array, or 
even another object. The value of a method is always a function. 

# The Document Object Model (DOM) 
The Document Object Model (DOM) specifies 
how browsers should create a model of an HTML 
page and how JavaScript can access and update the 
contents of a web page while it is in the browser window. 

## THE DOM TREE IS A MODEL OF A WEB PAGE 
As a browser loads a web page, it creates a model of that page. 
The model is called a DOM tree, and it is stored in the browsers' memory. 
It consists of four main types of nodes.

WORKING WITH THE DOM TREE 
Accessing and updating the DOM tree involves two steps: 
1. Locate the node that represents the element you want to work with. 
2. Use its text content, child elements, and attributes.

ACCESSING ELEMENTS 
DOM queries may return one element, or they may return a Nodelist, 
which is a collection of nodes

METHODS THAT RETURN A SINGLE ELEMENT NODE: 
getElementByld( 1 id 1) 
Selects an individual element given the value of its i d attribute . 
The HTML must have an id attribute in order for it to be selectable. 
First supported: IE5.5, Opera 7, all versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari. 
querySel ector( 1css selector') 
Uses CSS selector syntax that would select one or more elements . 
This method returns only the first of the matching elements. 
First supported: IE8, Firefox 3.5, Safari 4. Chrome 4, Opera 10 
... 
get ElementByld('one') 
... 
querySelector('l i . hot ' ) 
METHODS THAT RETURN ONE OR MORE ELEMENTS (AS A NODELIST): 
getEl ementsByClassName( 1 class 1 ) 
Selects one or more elements given the value of their cl ass attribute. 
The HTML must have a cl ass attribute for it to be selectable. 
This method is faster than querySe 1ectorA11 () . 
First supported: IE9, Firefox 3, Safari 4, Chrome 4, Opera 10 
(Several browsers had partial I buggy support in earlier versions) 
getEl ementsByTagName( 1 tagName 1 ) 
Selects all elements on the page with the specified tag name. 
This method is faster than querySe 1ectorA11 (). 
First supported: IE6+, Firefox 3, Safari 4, Chrome, Opera 10 
(Several browsers had partial I buggy support in earlier versions) 
querySelectorAll ( 1css selector) 
Uses CSS selector syntax to select one or more elements and returns all 
of those that match. 

## TRAVERSING THE DOM 
When you have an element node, you can select 
another element in relation to it using these five 
properties. This is known as traversing the DOM. 

### WHITESPACE NODES
Traversing the DOM can be difficult because 
some browsers add a text node whenever they 
come across whitespace between elements. 

HOW TO GET/UPDATE ELEMENT CONTENT 
So far this chapter has focused on finding elements in the DOM tree. 
The rest of this chapter shows how to access/update element content. 
Your choice of techniques depends upon what the element contains.

ACCESS & UPDATE TEXT & MARKUP WITH INNERHTML 
Using the i nnerHTML property, you can access 
and amend the contents of an element, 
including any child elements. 

ADDING ELEMENTS USING 
DOM MANIPULATION 
DOM manipulation offers another technique 
to add new content to a page (rather than 
i nnerHTML). It involves three steps: 
1. CREATE THE ELEMENT
2. GIVE IT CONTENT
3. ADD IT TO THE DOM 

## BREMOVING ELEMENTS VIA 
DOM MANIPULATION DOM manipulation can be used to remove 
elements from the DOM tree. 
1. STORE THE ELEMENT TO BE REMOVED IN A VARIABLE 
2. STORE THE PARENT OF THAT ELEMENT IN A VARIABLE
3. REMOVE THE ELEMENT FROM ITS CONTA INING ELEMENT  

### XSS: ESCAPING & CONTROLLING MARKUP 
Any content generated by users that contain characters that are used 
in code should be escaped on the server. You must control any markup 
added to the page. 